---
cover: /articles/medchat.webp
author:
  name: Christopher Celaya
  avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1370286658432724996/ZMSDzzIi_400x400.jpg
  link: https://twitter.com/Im_Mr_Chris
date: 2023-08-01T00:00:00.000Z
description: Innovative chatbot designed to transform preliminary diagnoses.

layout: article
---

# MedChat

::hero
---
image: medchat.webp
---

#title
Overview
#description
- Language Model:
Medllama2 

[Demo Under Construction 🚧](https://)
::

```

Prompt: 

  A 45-year-old man, known diabetic, reports increased thirst, 
  frequent urination, and blurred vision. His blood glucose 
  levels are consistently high. 
  
  What adjustments should be considered in his management plan?

```
---
```

Respone:

The patient's symptoms suggest a worsening of diabetic control. Given the
known risk of hyperglycemia leading to acute kidney injury, we need to
closely monitor and manage blood glucose levels. This may involve
adjusting medication or insulin regimens. We also need to ensure adequate
hydration status by increasing fluid intake and monitoring urine output.
[User should consider consulting a nephrologist.]

This case highlights the importance of close monitoring and management in
patients with known diabetes, particularly those at risk for acute
complications like acute kidney injury. The user should consider
consulting a specialist when necessary to ensure optimal patient care

Introduction:

Meet MedChat, an innovative chatbot designed to transform how patients 
receive preliminary diagnoses for medical illnesses. Leveraging the 
advanced large language model medllama2, MedChat offers a fast, accurate, 
and accessible way to understand potential health issues before visiting 
a healthcare professional.

Background:

With healthcare costs around the world increasing, the need for efficient, 
technology-driven solutions has never been more critical. MedChat emerges 
as a response to this challenge, aiming to bridge the gap between medical 
professionals and patients seeking immediate guidance on their symptoms.

Use Case:

Consider a user experiencing symptoms of a common cold or a more complex 
condition like diabetes. MedChat can guide them through a series of 
questions to assess their condition, offering a preliminary diagnosis 
that helps them decide whether to seek immediate medical attention or 
manage their symptoms at home.

Inspiration:

The inspiration behind MedChat came from a hard time in my life when I 
was diagnosed as a psychotic schizophrenic. Losing touch with reality 
became overwhelming on my mental health. At times I would hear or see 
things that were not there, held conversations I could no recollect, 
or function as a human. The demand to correct my health became the 
biggest priority. MedChat aims to alleviate some of my pressures and fears.

Project Details:

Overview: 

MedChat uses a conversational interface to simulate a preliminary check-up.

Technology Stack: 
Developed with medllama2, leveraging natural language processing 
(NLP) libraries and a machine learning backend for diagnosis predictions.

Development Process: The project kicked off with defining potential 
user scenarios, followed by creating a front end user interface to 
interact with the language model.

Features and Benefits:

MedChat’s key features include symptom analysis, risk assessment, lifestyle 
advice, and much more. This offers users value by reducing the time, 
costs, and anxiety associated with waiting for medical consultations.

Limitations and Challenges:

While MedChat provides valuable preliminary advice, it cannot 
replace professional medical diagnosis. Its accuracy is limited by 
the quality of user input and the complexity of medical conditions. 
The user interface needs a more feature rich appearance and functionality.

Future Directions:

Plans for MedChat include expanding its medical knowledge base, supporting 
more languages, and integrating with healthcare systems for seamless 
referral processes.

Conclusion:

MedChat represents a significant step forward in utilizing AI to 
support patient care. By providing immediate, accessible, and 
reliable health assessments, it empowers users to make informed 
decisions about their health.

Call to Action:

Reach out to experience MedChat and experience the future of 
preliminary medical diagnosis. Share your feedback and 
stories to help me improve and expand this as a service.