---
layout: default
head:
  title: Chris Celaya Blog
description: A blog based out of El Paso, Texas.
title: About
---

::hero
---
image: el-paso-star.webp
---

#title
Hi, I am Chris

#description
- Self taught software developer and engineer
- Musician, Music Producer,  Mixing Engineer
- Based out of El Paso, Texas
- I like BASS 🔉
::


I am Christopher Celaya, a results-driven and innovative engineer deeply immersed in the fascinating world of computer science, artificial intelligence, and mechatronics. Based in the vibrant city of El Paso, Texas, I have dedicated my career to blending the meticulous world of software development with the dynamic realm of industrial technology. With extensive experience under my belt, I have had the privilege of contributing to cutting-edge projects and tackling challenging roles, from a Data Center Technician at T5 Data Centers to a hands-on Mechatronics Technician at CN Wire.

My journey in technology began with a passion for understanding how things work, leading me to explore various fields of engineering and programming. I have attended courses in Electronics Engineering Technology and dabbled in Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, always eager to expand my knowledge and apply it to real-world challenges. Whether it is developing software solutions or maintaining and repairing industrial machinery, my goal has always been to enhance efficiency, reliability, and safety in every project I undertake.

As a self-taught programmer proficient in languages like C, Python, and JavaScript, I have developed a knack for creating innovative solutions that bridge the gap between digital and physical worlds. My hands-on experience with pneumatic, hydraulic, water, and electrical systems has equipped me with a versatile skill set, enabling me to manage and maintain complex systems with ease. Beyond technical skills, I value communication, collaboration, and creativity, believing that these qualities are essential in driving projects to success and pushing the boundaries of what is possible.

Learn more about my professional work [www.chriscelaya.xyz](http://www.chriscelaya.xyz). I am constantly on the lookout for new challenges and opportunities to apply my skills towards the growth and success of forward-thinking organizations.

::gallery
---
images:

  - /scenic-drive.webp
  - /el-paso.webp
---
::